# Project review

## Results summary 

With extremely high inertia scores, the K-Means model (with PCA) doesn't accurately group the data into clusters based on the columns selected as inputs.

Prior to giving my presentation, I hadn't considered the reasoning behind the choice of features used for K-Means modelling. I simply went along with the same features used for KNN. In retrospective, this may have been an error in judgment. The features selected for the KNN models were based on the correlation between them and the target.

Since K-Means is an example of solving an unsupervised classification problem, there is NO target involved. Therefore, I should have explored the relationships BETWEEN the input variables with correlation matrices and pair plots. That way I could have selected variables based on how well correlated they are to each other. If my selections had been different based on this analysis, I could have given the model a better idea of what variables link groups of data points together and therefore produced better results.


## Improvements

With more time to explore the data, research and solve the problems mentioned previously, I could have or should have considered a number of factors that could have resulted in:

<ul>
    <li>A better selection and manipulation of features and targets that could have given the supervised models are greater chance of success.</li>
    <li>A better selection of inputs that could have given the unsupervised models are greater chance of success.</li>
</ul>

Additionally, I could have explored other types of models (e.g. DBSCAN) that would have been better suited to solve the problems regardless of if I implemented the above changes.