# Project review

## Results summary 

Ultimately, ensemble methods that utilise decision trees seemed to predict Airbnb prices better than linear regression which didn't account for any non-linear relationships between features and the target price. The better performance of these models also hinged on log-transforming the target price.

Factors related to the size of an Airbnb listing (whether an entire home was being rented, the number of bedrooms in the listing) and its proximity to an abundance of restaurants and tourist attractions seemed to be the biggest driving forces behind price prediction for the random forest model that was chosen as the best predictor.


## Improvements

<ul>
    <li><ins>Better handling of known prices</ins>: log-transforming the price may have misrepresented the behaviour of the target and therefore the nature of the problem that needed to be solved.</li>
    <li><ins>More accurate known prices</ins>: data that took into account actual prices previous customers paid (instead of advertised prices set by hosts on their listing) may have accounted for any inflation and extreme values; acquiring this data was outside the time and budget scope of this project.</li>
    <li><ins>More data</ins>: data that spanned a wider timeframe and was more representative of London as whole may have led to improvements.</li>
    <li><ins>More time for model fine-tuning</ins>: using GridSearch instead of RandomizedSearch would have accounted for all possible combinations of hyper-parameter values instead of a random sample.</li>
    <li><ins>Explore more models</ins>: spatial models that took into account spatial data was found to be more successful in the original study that used this data.</li>
    <li><ins>Better performance metrics</ins>: a metric like RMSPE (Root Mean Squared Percentage Error) instead of RMSE which looks at errors, or a metric that tries to optimise predicted prices towards the median price instead of the mean, as these account for extreme price values.</li>
</ul>